Over the last lectures, you learned how to display notifications and that's awesome,
however now I want to dive deeper into the different options you can set up.
Thus far we only show the body and the title which we passed as a first argument to show notification.
These are two super useful things to have in a notification though because they are supported by all
devices. Now I'm deliberately saying devices and not browser because the features you can display in
a notification depend on the device you're displaying it on, not on the browser because keep in mind, notifications
you show here do not show up in the browser,
that's why I had to use this screenshot fallback,
they are shown by your device,
so in my case my MacBook, on a smartphone it would be your phone and therefore it's your phone or your computer
deciding which things it can show in a system notification.
Sometimes that's the only title and the body,
sometimes you can display an image. So you can always add more to options but you can't rely on it being
displayed.
Definitely add it to enhance the user experience on devices where it is supported but be prepared that
not all users might see it,
so put your core content into the title and the body
and with that, let's move on and let's start adding new options.
One nice option we can add is an icon to display next to the notification.
You simply add icon and then a path to the icon
and this can be any valid URL pointing to an icon.
Of course it works best if you point to an image which is nicely configured to be an icon, for example
in our images folder under icons,
we've got all these app icons which have equal width and height which is always great for icons,
so they work very nicely as icons,
also due to the resolution, they're not too big so quick to download,
these are all things you should try to keep in mind.
So here, I'll point to one of them by using an absolute URL here and you could use
a URL with HTTP at the beginning
too, now I will use slash something and this will automatically use the server on which the app is running.
So here I want to point to /src/images/icons and then app-icon-, I'll use the 96x96
icon
since this has a relatively nice resolution to look good on various devices.
We of course want the image which isn't too big, so that we don't have to load that much but we also
want to ensure that it looks nice,
so this is a nice size which you can orientate yourself on
and with that, we should now see an icon.
Let's try it out.
Let's save this and go back to our application, as always I'm clearing existing data to quickly download
my new Javascript code by reloading the page and then let me click this button.
I see this notification on my other screen, so that is how we can display icons.
Now we can do more than just display icons though, we can add more options to the setup,
for example we can add a whole image. The difference to an icon is the icon is that thing showing up to the
right or left, so next to the title somehow,
image is also a part of the content of the notification and just as I said at the beginning, these options
are not necessarily supported on all devices,
for example the image is something we won't see here on Chrome for Mac or on Mac, I should say. We will
see it later when I show it on my Android phone though.
So an image can also be added just like we added an icon,
we pass a URL or a path to the image,
in this case I want to show the /src/images
sf-boat.jpg
file as an image.
So that's the image I want to display inside of that notification
and I can add it by adding this option.
Now
besides the image, we can also set up the direction of the text, default is left to right,
you could set it to right to left to add some extra information to your notification for screen readers
and so on.
Now I'll leave the default,
just wanted to introduce that option.
Lang is another option you can set up
to be clear about the language you're using and here you have to use a bcp47 compliant language
code,
for example EN-US, you might know this,
so it has to be bcp47,
simply google that to be sure
which language tags or IDs you can use and which not
and with that, with these two options, you give some extra metadata information about your notification.
Now another thing you can set up which is partially supported on some of devices is vibrate.
Now this allows you to specify your own vibration pattern for this notification to be clear about how
it should vibrate.
So here you could say it should vibrate for 100 milliseconds, pause for 50 and vibrate again for 200
maybe
and this is how you structure this pattern, vibration, pause, vibration, pause and so on.
Again not every device may support this but if it supports it,
this is nice to give your notification a custom touch.
Now there's one other option I want to show you right now before I dive deeper into more important other
options in seperate lectures
and that's the batch option. Batch is what's showing up in the notification bar on let's say Android
mainly,
I guess Android is the only the device where we have that.
If you think about notifications on Android, you have to add top toolbar where you see basically black
and white icons of the application which did notify you, right?
And there you can set up your own batch to give your own app, your own icon showing up in that top bar.
The cool thing is you can pass a normal icon, you don't have to create a black and white one
and Android will automatically mask it for you.
So here I could also point to my images icons folder and then maybe also this app icon, 96x96.png
file and that's actually the recommended resolution by Android by Google
and again it will automatically mask it for you and then display it there.
These are the options I want to show you for now,
now before we continue, I will show you how this looks on a real device,
so let me quickly plug that in and then show you how notifications can look like on the real phone. To
connect my phone as shown before, in the developer tools I'll go to more tools and remote devices, there I see pending
authorisation, so on my phone I have to allow USB debugging here for this and now I have my
one plus connected. Put forwarding is still turned on so that I can conveniently access the application
running on my Mac from my phone and now if I click on my phone here, I can open new tabs here or open them
on my phone and click inspect,
I'll quickly do it on my phone here.
So here you see the connected tab now and now I can now click inspect here, open this up on a new screen
and this is now as you are used to it, my phone running or the developer tools running on my
phone connected to my phone basically.
Now there, I'll first of all make sure that I clear any existing set up, so I'll set side settings, clear and
reset here and now I want to reload this page to just make sure I'm really starting fresh.
Now let me click this enable notifications button on my phone
and there as you can see, I'm now prompted to give this access, so I'll click allow here and now you can
see, in the top toolbar,
there are three icons, one is from the recording software and one from USB debugging, the left one is
actually the camera icon of our application. If I expand this,
you also see the text, the content,
you see the icon and you see the image I specified,
what you didn't see is the vibration pattern which also worked.
So this is my own notification,
tapping it doesn't do anything right now,
we'll cover this later in the course too
but this shows you how it looks like here on a real device
and of course that's different to how it looks like on the Mac
but that's natural and this shows that even on a Mac, I didn't get any errors, here
I never got errors,
it just doesn't use the features it can't support.
So that's how notifications look like on a real device in the end.
Now let's dive deeper into other options
we can also set up before we then dive into push messages.